The Joe Rogan experience.
Do you know anything about what's going on in the Pacific Northwest,
where there's a pot of orcas that exists primarily on Chinook salmon and then.
So that's the, so in fact it's important. It's,
I'm glad you mentioned that because just, uh, yesterday and today, um,
a bunch of different protections are being announced for the Southern resident
killer whales, which are, uh, in the Salish sea.
So it's going to impede sort of vessel, uh, you know, they're,
they're really focusing on doing what they can what's happening.
There is they've got this snake river dam system that needs to be what happens
is they put the system in and the Chinook are just dying.
They can't get through the flow has gone. So.
They put the system in a long.
Time, a long time ago. So it's,
it's virtually over time has been decimating these populations.
No one really knew why,
but we're at the point now that we know that these orchids exclusively Chinook
and there's just not enough. And whereas they used to be massive ones.
Now they've got these tilt little tiny ones. And, you know, there was, uh,
th the, the plate of the Southern resident killer whales is really,
I'm glad that it, it, it's got getting global attention. Um,
I'm sure you're familiar with the mother who lost its calf and mourned for an
excess of like 40 days and carried around on her head and the type of vigil.
I mean, this was a, this captivated, the world,
and you can't look at an animal capable of such a suffering, uh,
without being acutely aware of the damage you're doing,
when you separate them from their family and natural investment.
Let me explain the difference.
When bears see their Cubs dead, they eat them. Yeah,
that's a difference. Yeah, this is,
you're talking about something that's insanely emotional.
It's a different kind of animal.
And that's the thing that we're learning is the most notable aspect of these
animals is their social, emotional intelligence capacity.
I'm afraid of what it is,
the depth of which we're going to find out that they're capable of, uh, of bond.
Because.
Particularly if there's ever some sort of a way of translating communication,
if they figure out a way of breaking down,
those sounds and expressions into something that we can decipher.
We right now, they don't, I don't think they know much. I've been.
Underwater with orcas and dolphins, and I've heard them, uh, you know,
I've heard, forget, I can't even tell you the sounds. I mean,
they've got a wide array of sounds, but, you know,
I could, you know, to, to, to, to the best of my abilities,
I could tell you when an animal was excited, based on their sounds,
they were making like, when,
when our Orca Neosha was pushing me underwater to do a rocket ride,
which is when you jump off into the air and you do this big majestic jump,
you knew it was going to be a good one.
When she let out this squawk at the bottom of the pool before pumping her tail
and launch, you just knew it, man, this, she was on, she was on fire.
And then it was other times you just, you just knew she wasn't into it.
And I could just, I could know, by the sounds,
you can really determine underwater sound alone.
You could really get to know your animal again. I was there 12 years. I mean,
I really got to experience a lot of things.
Other people can never really truly understand,
which is really why it's important.
That really important that I'm able to speak to these things because, uh,
I mean, even when it comes to the, the legislation that is passing, I mean,
I've had my name mentioned in the house of commons. I mean,
this is a national stage. I've had it mentioned in the Senate. I mean,
People care about what is coming up just yet, just a few days ago. And, uh,
Niagara MP, um, actually this would be a great video. If you could,
if you could pull it up, it'll be on my Twitter.
It's one of the things I retweeted with the MP, the local MP heat,
he bashes Marine land. I mean, that is a thing of absolute beauty.
I'm glad that I'm able to talk and explain to people what it is that my
experience has shown me and the things that I know,
because if people know they'll do better.
Problem with the videos, if we play that video gets claimed, oh.
Really? It's a hosted commons, a video it's public.
And government thing. Those usually are okay, but it's all good.
I don't know if it's from a, is it from a newsletter.
But you know what, uh, the, the, the group that put it up because they, okay.
Sorry about that. Okay. If you go to my Twitter and you check it,
it's something to Marvel is beautiful.
We've had a load of problems, uh, Niagara region one.
I can assure you this animal justice will have no problem with you doing this.
I'm good friends with.
Can we celeb Chuck? Well, we'll just tell people how to get to it,
but just put that back up. So I could read that, sorry. Um, it says, um,
Marine land, an unfortunate place with horrible conditions. Okay.
Yeah, he's a, I mean, this is a member of parliament. This is, uh, on the, on,
you know, this is the, this is the big stage right here. And he's finally,
and it took a long time for people, anyone in, in, in the, in,
in public policy to ever weighed into this subject.
Now we got people outright saying like this place as a whole, I mean, wow, what,
what, how far we've come in the last six and a half years.
Changing my friend, various changing. Whether people like it or not.
And this is one that I think it's,
it's unavoidable this discussion and this resolution, this, this has to be,
we have to come to grips with what that is. It's just,
it's just all kinds of wrong, man. It's all kinds of wrong. And, um,
the fact that they're still suing you after all these floods.
As if they think it's working as if it's serving them any purpose, I'm here.
I am again on the JRE. Like, are you kidding me, dude?
You don't even know the favor. You're doing me.
You don't even know what you've done. Come on. What, like,
uh, what, what, what are you, what do you want to accomplish?
What have you failed in accomplishing and what do you think you're going to
accomplish by like continuing? I mean,
Jamie is the virtual Def definition of insanity.
Good move. Jamie, who was it? That was on the podcast who was explaining the,
um, the processes in place of reintroduction into the wild,
or they were going to have stages and nets and stuff like that.
And these big outdoor areas where they can transmit dolphins and orcas to
who was that? Do you remember too many guns?
No conversation. It's not me. Wasn't you? We talked,
we spoke of the whale sanctuary project. I mean, that would be the, I mean,
that's essentially the, the basis of it. And the goal.
Was that maybe it was you,
was it discussing how there's places where they're going to have like
intermediate steps? Yep.
So maybe, maybe you guys, uh, expanded on it with someone else,
but know that this is the basis of this project is. And, uh, I mean,
the good news is, uh, the whale sanctuary project. I mean,
this thing is going to happen. It is the future they're there,
they're there they're well into the process of finding a site, uh,
considerations are being made for a Washington state's, uh,
site out of Vancouver site.
But it appears as though they're settled on maybe Nova Scotia,
the community there at large is looking to work with them. That's a wonderful,
that's wonderful news. And I'll tell you something, Joe,
once this law gets Royal, Ascension becomes law.
What happens is Marine land is not able to export the animals unless the
minister of the DFO, the department of fisheries and oceans,
concurs that it's in the animals' best interests. Well,
if such a site exists and Marine land is keen on getting rid of their animals,
we'll have a place for them. I told you last time I was here,
that my dream is to save whales.
This might happen. Additionally,
if there's a real concerted effort of real effort to rescue those animals in
Russia, I may very well be a part of that team.
So we're six and a half years ago, I was talking about,
I was speaking of a crazy dream where there was no blueprint.
There was no foundation. I just sort of threw myself into the universe and said,
I'm just going to hang my hat on a dream. I'm watching in real time,
as it's materializing, that's a hell of a perspective. Humbling.
That is amazing.
This thing that we were talking about with the Pacific Northwest, um, there are,
it's the resident population that has an issue because they only need each and
Oak salmon, but then there isn't there a,
another pod.
Comes through there's transients and they're thriving because they eat
everything. The transients are there. They're giving birth.
They're doing quite well. The Marine animals, they eat Marine animals.
It's correct. While I was the host and stuff, when I was there,
the guy that was with us literally said, can you smell that? I'm like, no,
what is that? Smell that sort of oily weird.
She's like a seal is getting eaten somewhere. Next thing we know,
we saw the activity, you know, the dorsals and everything and yeah, sure.
There's.
A part of a certain smell. She.
Could smell that, uh, that the seal was being eaten.
Can't they teach these smart whales to eat what their friends are eating.
Why do they have to be rude? He wouldn't. It's like they won't eat Chinese food.
Chinese food. You're starving to death. No, I want a burger.
It's a rare occasion,
but there's something called a super pod where it's actually a congregation of
all the different, uh, uh, families of orcas into this,
into this event where they all take,
they congregate and it's a big social event.
And there's a conference that happens every two years,
Washington state called super pod, which is organized by a good friend of mine,
Jeff venture. It's a, it's an amazing event.
I look forward to being there again and speaking,
I got to get to another place for me to speak and,
and roam about with experts and whatnot and learned a great deal of things. But,
um, I was,
we were on the cusp of that almost happening because the boats are radioing to
each other, like, okay, well, we've got a family going, this,
we've got a family going. This is like, wait a sec.
There's three families going to the same, same direction. It's like,
there's gonna be a crossing of paths.
And this is where the boaters get real excited either at the prospect of,
of a super pot of sorts or conflict, or.
They have conflict.
They fight. It could be. But I mean, for the most part, it's verbal.
They just tell you like, stay away from me. You,
I imagine their messages are quite clear and you've got a 15,000 pound bull male
Orca giving you the bird. Yeah. You're going to listen. Yeah.
Especially at transit holds, man. Oh yeah.
When you see their mouths wide open and see their teeth, you're like,
what the are you? Why,
why don't they start eating mammals?
And I wonder if anybody's ever studied the difference in the behavior between
the transient pods that eat the Marine mammals versus the behavior,
the ones that only exist on salmon, like maybe they have a different,
maybe they're like, you know, like avatar, like there's different,
different kinds of people up there.
My go-to source is Ingrid Visser. She is a top.
She's the woman in New Zealand that swims with orcas rescue because I mean,
she is a top, the, uh, the, the, really the,
the global spectrum of wild orcas, uh, uh, scientists,
she'd be the one to talk to you about that. I mean,
you want to talk about a fascinating person to talk to holy,
the wealth of knowledge she has. And she is a,
she's a very passionate advocate and I'm very proud to have done some very,
very.
Good work with her. So I'd love to talk.
To her, want to have her on the show?
Yeah. I would love to talk to her. I'm so curious about those things. She would.
Blow your mind.
Well, if there was a difference, if at all, and behavior.
If you were to invite her on the podcast,
she would get on the next flight from New Zealand and come here,
I can assure you that there's ever any interest in.
Being home.
You tell you what I think. I think she may have actually told the universe.
Maybe she told me that. Yeah.
Uh, they're amazing animals. I've always said that. And this is coming from a
self-admitted big foot dork. I'm a big foot door.
I really wished big foot was a real thing. But if big foot was real thing,
it wouldn't be nearly as cool as an Orca. No. Like if, if we found some big,
stupid stinky, Abe has been hiding from people forever and be like, wow,
that's cool. But it isn't much cooler than a Chimp or a gorilla. What?
Just because it's bigger. No. What an Orca is, is really cool.
That is a super intelligent, super cow that eats sharp.
Stealth killing machine. That'll eat that.
That has great whites turn tuck and tail and running.
Up a great white shark. Like it has no business, no business being in the ocean.
They're the perfect weapon in their world. I mean,
there's nothing that touches them. They're literally at zero risk.
They have no predators. I mean,
they're just too strong and too smart and coordinated.
They do their kills as teams. I mean,
you're literally up against an army out there. Try to be a 500 pound seal.
And that would be a big seal.
Army of 13,000 pound tiller whales.
Sort of enjoy playing with you a little bit before you die. I mean,
it's all interpreters play, but more often than not,
it's training the young ones on how to kill and stuff. It can be a brutal thing.
I mean,
I don't love watching it personally because they know I've worked with seals as
well. You know? I mean, it's, I'd take team.
Orca all day.
You're not getting, you're not getting great odds,
but put the host on it and you'll, you'll get some returns. Every time.
Videos I ever saw was an Orca with a beach seal,
the seal he had bitten it and tossed it through the air.
And the seal had made its way to the shore.
And it was actually on the land just with a little bit of water and the Orca
beached itself grabbed the whole a seal and just start smashing it
in the water there.
And you see the water just flood red with blood and then it hops back and
wiggles itself back into water and swims away like, holy. Crazy.
Holy. These things were beached themselves.
I think it's 15,000 pounds.
Now. Do they ever get stuck?
Yeah, they do. They do in New Zealand. In fact, that's where Ingrid's work is,
uh, is really special that she's, uh, dude, this is a crazy story.
I have a friend that I grew up with, uh, Matt Harrison, he went on to the,
to be, um, real involved in the army. He's like decades into the army.
Now he was on a training mission in New Zealand.
They were doing this training on a beach and didn't they get called to go
perform an Orca rescue. He's just like, oh, what?
So now he's running and now they've got shovels.
They're trying to figure this thing out. And now Ingrid shows up as the,
you know,
she's the person to call and now there's a photograph I'm waking up in the
morning to a photograph of Ingrid at this end of an Orca. And my friend,
Matt Harris from the same place as me, a little town of,
well at the other end of the Orca. And I'm like, you gotta be kidding me.
And I got to reunite the two of them back in, in Niagara falls in the summer.
Cause Ingrid had come down again and uh, oh my God,
these are blessings that I couldn't have even ever imagined.
And yet here he was. And he'd be the first to tell you when he came back,
it changed his world. It changed him. Never again. Marineland done.
Whereas before it might've been, you know,
it wasn't necessarily case he was part of this rescue. He's changed, man. Like,
he's just, I mean, now he's fascinated with work as like,
you can imagine he he's, he got the bug now.